# February 2022 StyleGuide newsletter

Combined update notes, summarising changes in the style guide from a recent month. This is the first edition of the newsletter, so we decided to include features from a longer period. Some of the key highlights include:

- [Components accessibility improvements](#accessibility-improvements)
- [Components color API changes](#components-color-api-changes) - caused by introduction of new color tokens.
- [Dialog component release](#dialog-component)
- [Responsive props](#responsive-props) - added responsive props support to Flex and text components.
- [UX motion tokens](#ux-motion)
- [Elevation in the UI](#elevation-in-the-ui)

## Accessibility improvements

- Rating
  - Star uses radio input and has accessible label
  - Rating has accessible descriptions for current rate value and rate action
- HomeButton
  - `aria-*` props renamed to use aria naming convention
  - `aria-label` added for a link (defaults to `type`)
  - `altTag` renamed to `alt`
- Logo
  - `alt` defaults to `type`
- FlashMessage
  - `alert` role added
- Avatar
  - focus style is visible
  - new props: `alt` & `ariaLinkLabel`
- Icon
  - added accessible `title` & `description` props for `Icon`
  - added `role` to `svg` in `Icon` (default: `"img"`)
  - adjusted colors for high contrast mode (only Windows)
- AccordionItem
  - added role `heading` and prop `headingLevel`

Detailed accessibility documentation for each component in [Storybook](https://style-guide.brainly.com/) is coming soon.

## Components color API changes

Color API changes caused by introduction of new [color tokens](https://style-guide.brainly.com/?path=/story/foundation-%E2%9C%A8-colors--page).

- Icon
- MobileIcon
- SubjectIcon
- MathSymbol
- IconAsButton
- Text
- TextBit
- Link
- Headline
- Bubble
- Box
- Label
- CardHole
- Spinner, SpinnerContainer
- Counter
- Overlay
- FileHandler
- Media
- Separators

There's only `Button` component API left to be refactored, though the component itself is already consuming new color tokens.

## New icons

There was a bunch of new icons added in recent releases:

- mobile
  - circle_fill
  - cursor_select
  - dashed_line
  - draw
  - hand_move
  - hexagon
  - send_back
  - send_front
- desktop:
  - bulb
  - bulb_checked
  - envelope
  - keyboard
  - profile_settings
  - answers
  - Google and Apple social icons

## Responsive props

Added responsive props support to following components:

- Flex
- Headline
- Subheadline
- Text
- Link
- Textbit

Detailed documentation on the feature is coming soon, in the meantime please refer to these [release notes](https://github.com/brainly/style-guide/releases/tag/v202.1.0), where you can find the feature description.

## UX motion

Created UX motion tokens, including durations and easing functions. You can find recommended usage for each token [here](https://style-guide.brainly.com/?path=/story/foundation-%E2%9C%A8-ux-motion--page).

Live examples of transitions are to be added in the future, for now please refer to [the Pencil documentation](https://design.brainly.com/8adfd5f36/p/091f75-ux-motion/b/5018fa) for visual representation of animations.

## Product logotypes

Introduced new [product logos and logotypes](https://style-guide.brainly.com/?path=/story/components-logo--product-logos).

## Elevation in the UI

Created [shadows utility classes](https://style-guide.brainly.com/?path=/story/utilities-shadows--page) and [documentation of elevation levels](https://style-guide.brainly.com/?path=/docs/foundation-%E2%9C%A8-shadows--page).

## Dialog component

New [Dialog](https://style-guide.brainly.com/?path=/story/components-dialog--default) component released.

## Other

- `Untitled` serif font face added (to be used in product only).
